
Dear Pedro A. Castillo,

The review of your chapter, Studying individualised transit indicators using a new low-cost information system, has been completed.  Although the 
reviewers find the contributions of the submitted chapter to be relevant, 
they believe that the chapter should undergo a major revision before the 
chapter can be published.

We are enclosing the comments provided by the reviewers.  Please take them 
carefully into account while preparing a new version of your chapter.
Please let us know if you have any questions about any of the comments or 
suggestions.

Once you have completed the revisions, please prepare a list of your 
responses to the reviewers’ comments, and then send us your revised 
chapter along with your list of responses by no later than January, 31st, 
2014.

Though we are convinced your chapter would be a significant contribution to the book, the inclusion in the book is dependent upon the revision throughly addressing the comments of the reviewers.

Thank you for your interest in the "Industry and Research Perspectives on 
Embedded System Design". We greatly appreciate your contribution and look 
forward to seeing your revision!  If you have any questions, please do not 
hesitate to contact us.


Best wishes,

Alessandra Bagnato           
Imran Rafiq Quadri           
Matteo Rossi                   
Leandro Soares Indrusiak
Editors


----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 5
TITLE: Studying individualised transit indicators using a new low-cost information system
AUTHORS: Pedro A. Castillo


----------- REVIEW -----------
The chapter presents a technology to gather traffic information using low-cost devices that use bluetooth to detect vehicles. The technology developed allows interested parties to retrieve the gathered information through web services. Finally, the chapter presents and analyses some data retrieved through the technology.

I think the chapter could provide an interesting contribution, but it should emphasise some aspects that are currently only hired at.
For example, the chapter explains that detection occurs through bluetooth devices; does this mean that vehicles, to be detected, need to also have bluetooth devices?
If so, how does this impact on the accuracy of the measurement (not all vehicles are currently provided with bluetooth technology).
Can you separate between a vehicle and some other bluetooth device that is not a vehicle?


The kinds of analyses presented in the chapter are rather straightforward, and not really surprising; can the infrastructure also support more complex analysis mechanisms, for example to generate events in case of traffic jams?


The English form should be throughly revised, possibly by a native speaker.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 5
TITLE: Studying individualised transit indicators using a new low-cost information system
AUTHORS: Pedro A. Castillo


----------- REVIEW -----------
The chapter presents a new low-cost information system to monitor traffic on different road types and in real time. The chapter highlights how indicators can be obtained using the new system to monitor the traffic density and car journeys and is overall a very interesting contribution.   
 
Related work is presented and a detailed bibliography is included. I would suggest to the authors to add an additional readings section, as detailed in the chapter guidelines, to better analyse the current technologies in the "Current Technologies chapter".

I would suggest to the authors to better describe the architecture of the information system  and to better detail the "Traffic density on the road by time range" , the "Total detections by time range" and the "number of individual vehicles detections graphics presented on Figure 4, figure 5 and Figure 6 to help readability of the obtained results.
It would be interesting also to add some more details on the hardware devices analysed  for data collecting in terms of size and power consumption.

The link to the prototype application provided on Chapter "Data-collecting hardware device" (  "http://www.bit.ly/Tt0Y0S") points right now to a googleMap (https://maps.google.es/maps?z=15&q=37.196786,-3.624787). More details on the application would be  interesting and in particular more details to the set of web services for easy access to the data in real time, including the different statistics. 

The authors should then:
1) add a glossary chapter and an additional reading chapters as in the guidelines
2) Follow the template for the camera ready submission especially considering the numbering of the headers and the various references between chapters


